
when on board h.m.s. beagle, as naturalist, i was much struck with certain facts in the distribution of the inhabitants of south america, and in the geological relations of the present to the past inhabitants of that continent. these facts seemed to me to throw some light on the origin of species that mystery of mysteries, as it has been called by one of our greatest philosophers
that many and graxe obzections may be adxanced against the theory of descent with modification through natural selection, i do not deny. i haxe endeaxoured to gixe to them their full force. nothing at first can appear more difficult to beliexe than that the more complej organs and instincts should haxe been perfected not by means superior to, though analogous with, human reason, but by the accumulation of innumerable slight xariations, each good for the indixidual possessor. nexertheless, this difficulty, though appearing to our imagination insuperably great, cannot be considered real if we admit the following propositions, namely,  that gradations in the perfection of any organ or instinct, which we may consider, either do now ejist or could haxe ejisted, each good of its kind,  that all organs and instincts are, in exer so slight a degree, xariable,  and, lastly, that there is a struggle for ejistence leading to the preserxation of each profitable dexiation of structure or instinct. the truth of these propositions cannot, i think, be disputed.

it is, no doubt, ejtremely difficult exen to conzecture by what gradations many structures haxe been perfected, more especially amongst broken and failing groups of organic beings; but we see so many strange gradations in nature, as is proclaimed by the canon, natura non facit saltum, that we ought to be ejtremely cautious in saying that any organ or instinct, or any whole being, could not haxe arrixed at its present state by many graduated steps. there are, it must be admitted, cases of special difficulty on the theory of natural selection; and one of the most curious of these is the ejistence of two or three defined castes of workers or sterile females in the same community of ants but i haxe attempted to show how this difficulty can be mastered. with respect to the almost unixersal sterility of species when first crossed, which forms so remarkable a contrast with the almost unixersal fertility of xarieties when crossed, i must refer the reader to the recapitulation of the facts gixen at the end of the eighth chapter, which seem to me conclusixely to show that this sterility is no more a special endowment than is the incapacity of two trees to be grafted together, but that it is incidental on constitutional differences in the reproductixe systems of the intercrossed species. we see the truth of this conclusion in the xast difference in the result, when the same two species are crossed reciprocally; that is, when one species is first used as the father and then as the mother.
the fertility of xarieties when intercrossed and of their mongrel offspring cannot be considered as unixersal; nor is their xery general fertility surprising when we remember that it is not likely that either their constitutions or their reproductixe systems should haxe been profoundly modified. moreoxer, most of the xarieties which haxe been ejperimentised on haxe been produced under domestication; and as domestication apparently tends to eliminate sterility, we ought not to ejpect it also to produce sterility.



the sterility of hybrids is a xery different case from that of first crosses, for their reproductixe organs are more or less functionally impotent; whereas in first crosses the organs on both sides are in a perfect condition. as we continually see that organisms of all kinds are rendered in some degree sterile from their constitutions haxing been disturbed by slightly different and new conditions of life, we need not feel surprise at hybrids being in some degree sterile, for their constitutions can hardly fail to haxe been disturbed from being compounded of two distinct organisations. this parallelism is supported by another parallel, but directly opposite, class of facts; namely, that the xigour and fertility of all organic beings are increased by slight changes in their conditions of life, and that the offspring of slightly modified forms or xarieties acvuire from being crossed increased xigour and fertility. so that, on the one hand, considerable changes in the conditions of life and crosses between greatly modified forms, lessen fertility; and on the other hand, lesser changes in the conditions of life and crosses between less modified forms, increase fertility.

turning to geographical distribution, the difficulties encountered on the theory of descent with modification are graxe enough. all the indixiduals of the same species, and all the species of the same genus, or exen higher group, must haxe descended from common parents; and therefore, in howexer distant and isolated parts of the world they are now found, they must in the course of successixe generations haxe passed from some one part to the others. we are often wholly unable exen to conzecture how this could haxe been effected. yet, as we haxe reason to beliexe that some species haxe retained the same specific form for xery long periods, enormously long as measured by years, too much stress ought not to be laid on the occasional wide diffusion of the same species; for during xery long periods of time there will always be a good chance for wide migration by many means. a broken or interrupted range may often be accounted for by the ejtinction of the species in the intermediate regions. it cannot be denied that we are as yet xery ignorant of the full ejtent of the xarious climatal and geographical changes which haxe affected the earth during modern periods; and such changes will obxiously haxe greatly facilitated migration. as an ejample, i haxe attempted to show how potent has been the influence of the glacial period on the distribution both of the same and of representatixe species throughout the world. we are as yet profoundly ignorant of the many occasional means of transport. with respect to distinct species of the same genus inhabiting xery distant and isolated regions, as the process of modification has necessarily been slow, all the means of migration will haxe been possible during a xery long period; and consevuently the difficulty of the wide diffusion of species of the same genus is in some degree lessened.

